Java Programming Language
A Guide

Java Programming Language
If you are new to programming in the Java programming language (Java) and have some experience with other languages, this tutorial could be for you. It walks through how to use the Java Platform Software to develop a basic network application that uses common Java platform features. This tutorial is not comprehensive, but instead takes you on a straight and uncomplicated path through the more common features available in the Java platform. This tutorial is a learning tool and should be viewed as a stepping-stone for persons who find the currently available materials a little too overwhelming to start with.
To reduce your learning curve, this tutorial begins with a simple program in Java, develops the program by adding new features in every lesson, and leaves you with a general electronic commerce application, and a basic understanding of object-oriented programming concepts. Unlike other more reference-style texts that give you a lot of definitions and concepts at the beginning, this tutorial takes a practical approach. New features and concepts are described when they are added to the example application.
Please note the final application is for instructional purposes only and would need more work to make it production worthy. By the time you finish this tutorial, you should have enough knowledge to comfortably go on to other Java programming language learning materials and continue your studies.
If you have no programming experience at all, you might still find this tutorial helpful; but you also might want to take an introductory programming course before you proceed.
Lessons 1 through 8 explain how applications, applets, and servlets/JavaServer Pages are similar and different, how to build a basic user interface that handles simple user input, how to read data from and write data to files and databases, and how to send and receive data over the network.
Lessons 9 through 15 walk you through socket communications, building a user interface using more components, grouping multiple data elements as one unit (collections), saving data between program invocations (serialization), and internationalizing a program. Lesson 15 concludes the series with basic object-oriented programming concepts.
This tutorial covers object-oriented concepts at the end after you have had practical experience with the language so you can relate the object-oriented concepts to your experiences.